okay but let me ask because i mean the
reasons for my getting involved with
buddhism are completely
uh different from iran why now so let's
say in the year 2021
why in 2021 would you want to be
involved in buddhism
and i mean that in the broadest sense
whether you're referring to it as a
textual tradition
or as a cultural tradition or a temple
but like not not necessarily
any one element of it but why in the
broadest sense buddhism is getting why
would you
want to be involved in what motivates
you positively so
i grew up in a very violent household um
i grew up
enduring a lot of physical abuse and
when i was in my early teens i found a
book about
japanese culture and there was so much
serenity and tranquility i'm like i
don't know what this
is and it fascinated me because my house
was not tranquil and so i
i felt like i needed self-control i
needed to understand where the anger was
coming from
now i got away from that like i told you
i went into a lot of drugs i went to a
lot of drinking
my father was an alcoholic there was
just a lot of rampant drugs in my house
and so i got away from everything
and then when i separated from my wife
because i was working too much
i really felt like i needed to have some
sense of i just wanted to to
to get back to the place where i felt
tranquil i felt like i could work on
myself and do better and be the best dad
it could be for my kids
and i felt like buddhism was it because
it had been such a large part of my life
but i'm just i don't know what it is
anymore i can't even tell people i'm a
buddhist because i'm embarrassed for all
the things that they think it is
right and so i don't even know what i am
but you know i go back to the dhammapada
all right go back to okay right but
let me just pause let me just point this
out to you but your answer
has almost entirely been about you
it's not been about buddhism
[Music]
well i think the sad part is is that i
think there are a lot more people
like me who have been
wanting to get involved in it but have
hit in the wall of just so much fraud so
much [ __ ] so much lying
that we get just like we just leave
because there are very few people who
tell the truth
yes and when i came across your
information i was blown away because i
had this feeling that what i was reading
in the in the canon that i was
misinterpreting because everybody else
like biku bodhi like all of those people
were saying that
my thoughts were wrong now i don't read
paulie but i was kind of getting the
intention of
is that the intention of what he said
now i've run into some people
well i don't know if you've heard of
daniel ingram have you heard of this guy
oh i have but i haven't heard the name
for 10 years or something sorry
i could google it but i just say when
you say that name i think where do i
know that from so go on
[Music]
you know like i call him the harry
potter of buddhism because he
he basically says that you know he's
gone through all levels of jhana and you
know he wrote a book about it and he
just he's one of these guys who just
believes that buddhism is all about
meditation right but everything he spoke
about is all hallucination
right and i asked him that straight out
i emailed him i said listen this just
sounds like you're hallucinations
right he's already very rare though if
he's willing to talk about
what he saw and felt when he thinks he
experienced jhana that's already
very very rare most people are
right but most people most people are
evasive and you know they don't
really you know including buddhist monks
they will not really admit to what it is
they believe in or what they think
they've experienced
go on there's a kind of honesty in that
even if it's
even if it's complete [ __ ] or even
if it's an intentional cult scam
because most people are so evasive go on
now he wrote a whole book on it
um and again i went through the book i
was kind of taken aback by it because
i can already tell you're too smart for
this i'm sorry just
know with the tone of your voice i
talked to so many people in buddhism
where you know from the first minute you
talk to them oh well you know my life is
a dream
and i just float through life like like
you know but i mean you know
those people they're out there in their
tens of thousands and their hundreds of
thousands there are people who are born
victims for this but i mean i can i mean
look
even if you didn't tell me the rest of
the story i already know in a sense
where this is going because
you are not dumb enough to be an
uncritical victim of this but but but i
have sympathy a lot of people
are dumb enough and they matter too but
don't go on i mean
well no i've run into way too many
people who want to have somebody tell
them
what buddhism is and then just do what
they say they don't want to read
anything they don't give two shits about
the pali cannon they just want to do a
ritual
grab a magic charm and pretend their
life is peaceful
i can't do that i've never been one to
do that you know i
i went to that temple and the only
reason i went there is because the only
buddhist temple in the entire area
and sadly it's a bunch of people who are
free to make magic charms to talk about
demon you know demonic spirits and and
how
if you bow 300 times today reciting the
name amitabh a thousand times in earnest
then you're better off buddhist than
anybody who understands anything about
buddhism
right so i was one of two white people
in this entire place i was trying to
learn mandarin because i wanted to fit
in so badly
they were calling me white monkey
somebody told me they were calling me
that
maybe maybe you could get upgraded to
the golden monkey or something maybe
i didn't donate enough to get there um
but yeah it was weird because i was
doing all this free labor to them like
it was almost i'm starting to write
about it
the the title of the book so far is
called um uh forget the starving feed
the statues
and and that basically is my entire
experience we had people come to the
temple
begging for food hey maybe the title
could be the first of the white monkeys
no yeah the first of the white monkeys
right the weird thing is it's like i
don't want to sound like i'm racist but
i was willing to do everything
for this temple and they were promoting
me
as a white person they gave me this this
coveted position of like tour guide
for this stupa yeah and you know the
stoop is gorgeous don't get me wrong
there's relics in there
if i could get you in there right now
it's closed they have got like
palm leaf poly up there locked away
yeah and i would love to get you in
there
i've seen a lot of palm leaf manuscripts
so don't worry about it i'm not missing
but yeah it's all forgeries though do
you know what i mean like oh yeah well
what what normally happens is just the
people well for one thing
ethically and legally it may be illegal
to buy these things but they're
available for purchase
it's just the people oh yeah oh yeah
there are thousands and thousands
throughout southeast asia but
most time people buy them not knowing
what they are
now you know the people who are doing it
for money
then it's like baseball card collecting
where they're buying this stuff and then
find out what it is and they hope it's
worth money and basically it never is
and basically with with teravata
buddhism there is no such thing as a
financially valuable manuscript there's
no market for that
you know by by contrast uh tibetan art
can be worth a lot of money so people
who buy up buddhist
paintings and statuary from tibet they
can do that in a for profit base even
say buddhist sculptures from myanmar but
actual pali manuscripts
you know they're either worth zero or
they're worth less than it talked cost
you to import the next for them
but you know in terms of what people buy
and uh back in the old days i got some
questions on the internet
it's been a long time where people
emailed me photographs of a manuscript
and normally they'd say they had
acquired it from their grandfather and
not
purchased it in the black market um yeah
but and
uh you know sometimes you tell them well
bad news it's not
written in pally it's actually written
in this other language from this other
period of time
um or sometimes you say guess what it's
lotion
folklore you know like not it's not
really a buddhist
text it's the equivalent of robin hood
in that culture but you know robin hood
is not the bible
you know in the same sense folklore is
not the the buddhist canon
um but yeah that that that stuff is
going on
um it's just that there's there's really
no money in the game
the most pathetic and tragic thing is
that um
the actual archives which i spent a lot
of time visiting so like the official
government archives in sri lanka the
official government archives in
poorer countries like laos and cambodia
they actually do get looted
and it is widely yeah yeah yeah it is
widely presumed that it's their own
staff
it's their own employees stealing right
well it could be someone like a janitor
but of course it could it could also be
a thief it could be someone who comes in
but peop somebody is going into these
places and stealing the buddhist
manuscripts and then
uh selling them on the black market
so you know i mean um the good news is
nobody cares but no
that's a mass phenomenon and i went to
one of those manuscriptorio with a
buddhist monk who'd last been there five
years earlier
and he was able to say whoa there's a
lot of stuff missing from the shelves
that was here five years ago
and you know so yeah you know it's this
is uh
when i was in laos there was so so just
to be clear the vast majority of
manuscripts
in a country like laos are of no
historical significance
um it's just i mean they're books
but there was one discovered that i
think was 400 years old or something and
it was really important
and there were these german researchers
who discovered it because you know you
have to care to know like if you have a
pile of manuscripts
and a whole bunch of them are from the
late 19th century and are worthless and
then there's one that's 400 years old
it's only going to stand out if you're
if you're somebody like me who cares
about it like you notice the stuff
but you first notice the style of
handwriting is different and then you
say whoa let's let's take a look um
so some german researchers there i met
those guys we weren't friends but there
were people i
drank i'd literally drank coffee with
them um
coffee wasn't that great but anyway
these they they discovered they said wow
okay great well let's set it out on this
table
and we'll come back tomorrow morning and
start photographing it uh you know
because it's easier to work with digital
photographs
and then start studying it but the
photographs will be preserved they came
back the next morning and there wasn't
anything on that table anymore
so again it's presumed that one of the
employees
they just saw this oh the white people
are getting excited that this particular
book is worth money
and they the person stole it to sell in
the black market but
who whether it's the black market or not
who would pay
even 100 or something like that it's
it's very very hard to imagine
if something's beautifully illustrated
um then it's worth money because the
illustrations
but basically the the real pali canon
the real buddhist manuscripts never are
illustrated unless it's something like a
medical uh
essay in pally like describing how
different medicines i think but
but uh there are there are there are
illustrated things are worth money
because the illustration but yeah that
long story short about about manuscripts
and i have been in meetings at museums
i used to be employed in the museum
sector and i never signed any contract
saying i wouldn't talk about this stuff
or keep it secret by the way
where people were sitting and openly
talking about the
illegal uh manuscript trade like buying
them for the museum
and the uh statuary uh trade you know
buying
buying up buddha statues so that is that
is ongoing and you know where the the
the tricks to take something criminal
and make it
just barely legal were very much being
discussed and how
how even the most respectable museums
put money to this from memory
i think if you uh export uh
a buddhist um artifact to switzerland
i think after 10 days or 10 business
days
it's declared swiss patrimony and then
you can
you know auction it and switch so yeah
the way
there are certain places whether it's
switzerland hong kong
or singapore they have laws that
basically encourage uh the black market
in in fine arts but yeah so this stuff
is available
and these cultures they were massively
productive of this kind of art like you
know tibet was drowning
in buddhist statues the cultural
obsession was making as many
statues and paintings of buddhist themes
as possible and you know likewise
southeast asia was drowning in this
stuff
so you know it wasn't scarce say at the
end of world war ii
there was a lot of this stuff to be put
on the black market
and you know it still isn't scarce it
still isn't valuable
for that reason and sadly it's also not
valuable because of scholarship
so so one final anecdote but this is
probably more of what you're interested
in because it's not really the art
history side
uh there was one researcher who lived in
australia
and his name was primoz pachenko
so i assume he's uh from poland
originally
i'm sorry maybe he was estonian like i
don't i don't know
but i assume he was from poland or
somewhere in eastern europe
but he was living and working in
australia as a researcher
and he just asked the question well all
these white people
are working with the commentaries of the
pali canon
but why do they assume there's only one
set of commentaries for these
ancient buddhist texts why don't i just
go and ask around
in some traditional temples in northern
myanmar
like hey do you have other commentaries
and the answer is yes
and right you know now i can't say right
away but i think his research trip was
only like 20 days long it wasn't he
wasn't out there for years looking i
forget it was
i'm sorry it was 20 days or 30 days but
you know he had a job back in
back in australia but he went he visited
some buddhist temples he talked to some
monks i think through a translator and
then
and they took him to the manuscript yeah
i think we have some stuff with that and
they there were some ancient
manuscripts there that were other uh
you know commentarial traditions that
compete with
buddhaghosa so buddhaghosa is not the
same person as the buddha
he for listeners in the audience he is
the person who wrote what are referred
to as the commentaries but he wasn't
he had competition but this is the point
he wasn't the only author
on the planet you know at that at the
price of that time or whatever
so he he found apparently some other
commentaries
and then he died and the point is
the point is nobody had attempted this
kind of research before him
and nobody attempted this kind of
research after him and apparently at
that time
so this is maybe now 10 years ago 15
years ago i was
alive i was as you're about to hear i
was involved in my tiny uh
way uh at that time you could do it
you could go out and discover new
ancient buddhist manuscripts nobody had
translated nobody
had looked at before um so you know this
has happened
this has happened rarely it happened
with the discovery of uh one manuscript
in cambodia
which it was an ancient pali manuscript
from from india but
you know hadn't been known before it was
discovered in cambodia but it happened
so rarely because nobody's looking
nobody's interested that nobody cares
probably especially in in myanmar
in any case who who do you think
emailed his widow after his death
asking about completing this research
project or at least cleaning up the bits
and pieces of it because like he died in
the middle of researching this and
publishing it so probably there's work
that's done
but that hasn't moved i did i got in
touch this one
and and i was right so in case you think
there's like a ton of intellectual
you know resources going to waste here
in case there's a whole lot of talented
people
no there's incredibly little talent
there are incredibly few sincere
intellectuals
uh there are and you know the majority
of the people who are involved in the
game are
insane cult members of one kind or
another
i wanted to talk to you though is
because i think what i find the most
offensive thing
is that if anybody's really serious
about this practice yeah you have to
accept the fact that there's spirits and
ghosts i get it right i don't you know
it is what it is
i take it for what it is but what i what
i have a problem with is people like
yourself
are like institutionally pushed away
because you have answers and nobody
wants to hear it
nobody wants to talk about it no they
just want to be okay with really bad
interpretations
and go from there it's almost like
people like you are not allowed to exist
because how dare you right you know and
then i remember you you had that phone
call with that professor
and he did his damnedest to keep you out
of buddhism as a path
right and secondly then blamed your
attitude on the reason why you'll never
succeed and it's like
you're like wait a minute i have the
answers
and it's like that doesn't matter and
his answer was basically nope
no we just don't like you even though
you know what you're talking about more
than we do
yeah but let's just blame the messenger
and that's why i'm like
i'm watching your videos going well wait
a minute this can't be the whole story
but the more and more that i listen and
read i'm like that is
they just they just want to make sure
you don't have a platform
they could give a [ __ ] like if they
don't know anything i took a course
through princeton
and i got my money back because the guy
that was teaching the course didn't
[ __ ] know anything
and he was teaching soku gokai the
entire time and i'm like that's not
really
oh wow wow he is the head
of buddhism for that university yeah and
i'm like
you're a soku gokai member i said that
to him on chat i'm like that is not
buddhism my friend you were in a cult
and he said
if you don't like it that's what the
course is about and i'm like well no i
don't i want my money back so i got my
money back
yeah like i come i hear you and i'm like
you should have been one of the main
proponents of
of shaping how we study this how we
practice it
but nobody wants to hear from you and it
blows my [ __ ]
so okay look i partly agree with you
the sense in which i disagree is to kind
of get to an even
simpler level of what buddhism and the
cult mentality
does to people so i and just to be clear
buddhism doesn't have to be a cult
but it is it is for most people involved
in it like for me it wasn't a cult
and i didn't have these kinds of
supernatural beliefs i didn't believe in
ghosts or demons
i didn't believe in reincarnation right
so i mean it
doesn't have to be and in my videos one
of the most positive things i say is
this could be meaningful for you in the
same way that shakespeare
is meaningful for people and i think
that's the
content there like there's good
philosophy there if you're willing to do
the hard work
well i don't know if you've ever known
the sort of romantic wistful character
who
when tragedy strikes quotes shakespeare
you know there are people like that you
know like it's shakespeare is something
you can quote at a funeral
you know you can give a speech at a
funeral you can quote it at a wedding
and when things happen in life you can
kind of live
with the literature of shakespeare in
this way
that's meaningful but it's not magical
it doesn't
solve your problem it's not like oh i
know just what to do in this situation
because shakespeare told me but
you know if you think about it though
that's all people are giving the
credence of
it's almost like as long as i have a
meme that the buddha said this then
things are magically better and it's
like you know a you know the buddha said
that secondly
this whole thing is not about memes but
it just seems to be co-opted by
mindfulness by yoga by all these people
who just want to bastardize it for
profit
yes you know it's like it doesn't make
enough money on its own
but some some of those people are
sincerely insane though
it's not always profitable it's not
always so around here right no but i
mean
for meditation classes right like i mean
come on sure but but but as much as the
money motive may prevail it's always
important to keep in mind some of them
are sincere
and their sincerity precisely indicates
craziness but so just to finish what i
was saying uh before we got into
shakespeare
you know my experience is that buddhists
will not even be emotionally able
to ask me a question like how are things
in cambodia
and that that shows how brittle their
view is
we're like we can't even talk about that
now i'm not going to praise catholicism
as the greatest religion in the world
i'm obviously not really a fan of
catholicism
but i do think catholics can sit down
and say wow you know i just got back
from a vacation in
sicily how are things with the church in
sicily well you know it's really corrupt
and it wasn't it wasn't what i was
expecting based on
my experience in spain oh really yeah
when i was in spain i lived in barcelona
and it was like this
and now i was in southern italy in
sicily and it was like that
catholics can talk in a worldly
pragmatic way about what's going on in
the church they can talk about the
politics of the church
how the church relates to and struggles
with the world they can talk about
topical issues like evolution and the
church's attitude towards evolution and
homosexuality
so this you know in any other context
this might be kind of damning the
catholics by faint praise
but i mean this as sincere praise
catholics can deal with all that stuff
in my experience of the buddhists even
the best
the most elite buddhists uh like a lead
in the sense of uh
having phds sorry i should be more clear
because i just i just really mean elite
education in this sense
yeah they they cannot they cannot
just ask me or or appreciate that i know
something interesting because i've spent
time in cambodia like it's not about
right or wrong like it's not like i'm
going to
prove you wrong or i'm going to debunk
what you believe in
telling you about cambodia but just can
we talk about cambodia
and if we can't talk about cambodia then
we can't talk about slavery
and we we you know we sure as hell can't
talk about the fact that buddhists
believe that when people are
reincarnated with a disability it's you
know it's their own fault and you know
there are all kinds of
i've experienced that i i picked up
shifu
and we went to get uh some groceries and
there was a guy on the side of the road
asking for change so i gave him some and
he said how dare you
he said you just messed with his karma
and i'm like what are you talking about
the guy's
he's homeless we're supposed to help
people and he's like no that's his karma
that's his problem
i'm like what i'm crazy and i was just
like i'm sat there going no
we help people because he's he was he's
in our lives we're supposed to do what
we can to ease people's suffering
he couldn't get over the fact that i did
that he was like oh you've just made
damned him to more bad karma
and i'm just like nope i don't believe
it i don't believe it and i will not
believe it because
if that's what this is about i don't
want any part of it back back to the
dark ages
but you know i mean the other thing you
you wrote to me about is racism within
buddhism
you know but okay but if we're talking
about chinese buddhists specifically
i would say it is fairly common for them
to believe that people are
reincarnated as black rather than white
similarly as a punishment for bad carbon
now i would not say that's a
100 percent of chinese people believe
that but if you ask them so something
that they'd be more comfortable
answering is say the difference between
being born chinese and being born
mongolian
and they regard mongolians as inferior
is that the result of
bad karma uh many chinese would
immediately say that yes the difference
between being incarnated as chinese or
fungulian is
heck if you're not a chinese you're
you're basically not that good either
well the thing was i was a white guy so
for some reason they thought i was going
to bring in all these white people and
bring in more money which wasn't the
case at all
but then secondly when a black gentleman
came in and asked to volunteer
he was literally told to like get the
[ __ ] out and it was like i've never seen
her do that
and i said to her why she's like no no i
want none of his kind here and i'm like
oh
i get it now well when you put it that
way
yeah but then the thing was is women had
to stay on one side of the temple men
we're on the other
women had to follow men because men were
more important and
we was scorching hot one day in the
temple we have 80 year old women there
i wasn't even allowed to put a fan on
them while we did evening prayer because
the spirits would enter through their
ears if i did
right and i'm like are you [ __ ]
kidding me
and i'm like i can't i just i just this
is too much for me
right like it just it was so crazy i
couldn't deal with it
and then i just when people were taking
pictures with me i'm like no i'm a
[ __ ] circus side show here i can't do
this anymore
right i can't and so i left but these
guys are building a hundred million
dollar temple and i'm like where are you
getting this money from
like literally where are you getting it
from and the only thing i can think of
is there's money pouring into that
church
or that temple that i don't know dude
it's just
it just reeks to me as so much bad stuff
it's not buddhism i don't know what they
do but they were little stop counters
around their neck and they count
amitabha and if they say it ten thousand
times in one day
well the next day they gotta say at ten
thousand and one right and that's all
they give a [ __ ] about and i'm like
and as as you probably know amitabha
does not appear in the power cannon is
and i was pretty certain of that but i
didn't know about amitabha but i'm like
hey if you could just make up buddhas
and then just say well i don't want to
practice you know i don't want to
practice what the actual buddha said
if he existed i want to practice what
one we made upset
i mean that's just like oh [ __ ] sakes
like how can it be this way
you can't make a new jesus you know and
say i'm just going to follow this guy
now
well people can and they do on the
contrary
get started to start a new religion we
can start a new relation tomorrow you
can take everything you've just learned
and started new vision why is buddhism
why are people in buddhism so just okay
with people just [ __ ] with it in
every way shape or form like you
even atheists will defend buddhist
buddhism zen to me is the most [ __ ]
corrupt of them all
yes you're just supposed to sit there
and stare at a wall and things will just
magically get better in your life right
there's no goal mine
can't have a goal when you practice well
and zen zen is the most authoritarian
too you're not allowed to ask questions
and so yeah so the the element of blind
obedience and blind faith is really the
worst thing
it's [ __ ] ritual and it is it's just
you know i wear the rokasu and i have a
title
and i'm so special and i have a dharma
name and i just don't know what to do
anymore
you know i feel like i can't tell people
have you considered converting the
mormonism and what am i gonna
well i've considered just like leaving
it all behind you know i just got
finished reading the gita
and it basically has a lot of similar
situations that the buddha talked about
but then again it's all about you know
you better honor krishna and do
everything for krishna and i'm like
i don't i don't need to do that i just
need to focus on my life my kids
try to get myself back to a place yeah
so i feel like i had more sense of it
when i was 12
than i do now you know okay but let me
ask because i mean
the reasons for my getting involved with
buddhism are completely uh different
from iran
why now so let's say in the year 2021
why in 2021 would you want to be
involved in buddhism
and i mean that in the broadest sense
whether you're referring to it as a
textual tradition
or as a cultural tradition or a temple
but like not not necessarily
any one element of it but why in the
broadest sense buddhism is why would you
want to be involved in what motivates
you positively so
i grew up in a very violent household um
i grew up
enduring a lot of physical abuse and
when i was in my early teens i
found a book about japanese culture
and there was so much serenity and
tranquility i'm like i don't know what
this
is and it fascinated me because my house
was not tranquil and so i
i felt like i i needed self-control i
needed to understand where the anger was
coming from
now i got away from that like i told you
i went into a lot of drugs i went to a
lot of drinking
my father was an alcoholic there was
just a lot of rampant drugs in my house
and so i got away from everything
and then when i separated from my wife
because i was working too much
i really felt like i needed to have some
sense of i just wanted to to
to get back to the place where i felt
tranquil i felt like i could work on
myself and do better and be the best dad
it could be for my kids
and i felt like buddhism was it because
it had been such a large part of my life
but i'm just i don't know what it is
anymore i can't even tell people i'm a
buddhist because i'm embarrassed for all
the things that they think it is
right and so i don't even know what i am
but you know i go back to the dhammapada
all right go back to okay right but
let me just pause let me just point this
out to you but your answer
has almost entirely been about you
it's not been about buddhism no i'm not
saying that i'm sure that's a completely
sincere answer and it's probably the
right answer
but like aside from the aesthetics of
japanese culture
which you can have in your life i mean
without buddhism you become a
japanophile and
many people do you know you can make
japan your winter vacation destination
every year you could you could spend a
month in japan every year
and learn japanese and whatever it is
you like about japan you could
you know you can enjoy that in life but
with that exception
all you've been talking about is you and
not saying
like there's something there's something
i want to learn or know or access to
through buddhism just really really
brief
parallel but totally different situation
i was giving advice to a young woman
recently about
thailand and so she's
allegedly going to learn thai and move
to thailand and get a job in thailand
and one of the simplest questions i
asked her was why thailand
because it could be egypt you could go
to egypt
well not anywhere i mean you know right
now it probably can't be iran
you know some you know afghanistan
probably off them there are you know
there are places that are kind of
just more comfortable or more humanly
possible i mean even the contrasting
thailand and cambodia and laos and so on
i know
but okay but like can you be honest with
me and you could be can you be honest
with yourself about
why thailand because you're you're
talking about making a sacrifice
or commitment you're doing work with the
next five years your life whether it's a
sacrifice or not
that will change your life forever and
if you chose japan instead of thailand
or egypt instead of thailand
uh or uh poland you know that could
change your your life in your future
forever
too so why why thailand now look i mean
you just say in some ways it's deeper in
some ways it's shallower to ask
you know why buddhism but there's
there's
i'm not saying retroactively there has
to be good answer like you know
i'm sure within the last few years the
answer you've given me is the answer
you know you were upset about your
divorce you had this and that on your
mind
but now looking ahead to the next five
years i don't know how much of a
commitment you've already made to
chinese as a language chinese is a lot
of work
okay well okay good then it's not then
it's not a huge loss to shift that way
because i mean you know
you know you you know so it was very
hard for me to commit myself to learning
a language
when i knew deep down inside that i
didn't really care for most of the
people i was speaking with
so it was it wasn't i don't know i think
i was trying really hard to be a part of
their group
um but you're right i mean why buddhism
i don't know why did i pick up the gita
and find the same things and say well
it's not for me i don't know i mean i
guess i'm looking
why am i not a stoic i need you know i'm
a person that likes to take action in
life
i like to be find some sense of like
purpose i like to be accountable and
responsible for my own actions why not
stoicism i don't know
right seems to me like it's blowing up
too and people love
getting memento more tattoos like
something
you know but i guess i i guess i was
just i felt like there was a connection
there prior like
i felt that there was something
spiritual there but i'm not a hugely
spiritual person right
there was no god to pray to there was
none of that
i felt like that was positive but i felt
like the poly canon was saying you
have to do the work to get the results
and that's something that i like
because i want to be responsible to
myself to do the work whereas a lot of
religions i show up on sunday i say a
couple hail marys and i'm good to go
that's just not me i need to do the work
i need to hold myself accountable
right but so so look you you are uh
we're keeping you anonymous i don't mind
if you want to we can
we can know you but you are
approximately 50 years old right
yeah all right so you know another
question is at what point do you stop
reading other people's books and
following other people's philosophies
and you know write your own and follow
your own that's right like you said
that really blew my mind is that these
are just stories
how come you're not writing your own and
i'm like [ __ ] because i've never felt
like i
was legitimate enough to write my own
but when you said that
right i wrote about that for about four
hours and said wait a minute
it's just a story it's just a [ __ ]
story how come i cannot write my own
right but you know well look it may be
it may be
that that's something you're doing at
age 60 like you know it may not be
it may not be at age 50. you know i i
wasn't
writing my own uh say 10 years ago now
that's partly because i was just busy
doing other things
but you know you've been doing a lot of
things yeah yeah you devote yourself so
much to it
you know what i mean right you're right
the person that passes me off is
somebody who just
gently looks into something you just
don't you don't give me that impression
at all if you're going to talk about it
it's because you know about it right so
right i think you dedicate yourself to
things quite a bit well i i wanted to i
wanted to put in a kind of
footnote on that too because some people
would would hear
what i just said and i've talked to
people who have this attitude
and think oh they can close up all their
books or burn their bookshelf
and just focus on being a creative
person uh ex nihilo working working from
nothing
you know so right now i'm writing a book
i've
ended up researching certain court cases
for this book like going through the
records of exactly what the judge
said in court to include in the book so
i mean you know my point is just very
simply
creative writing also involves reading
now even if i were going to write a
comedy movie uh
like a script for a comedy movie i would
probably end up doing research and
reading
to write that you know something about
the setting or whatever so now that's a
relatively shallow example
but you know i'm not saying learn
nothing i think if you are
you know i think if you are articulating
your own ideas and and kind of
uh writing your own books and and
regarding yourself as a creative person
there are research elements to being a
creative person and i think there were
also destructive elements
to being a creative person i think i
think it's completely legitimate
uh to you know to kind of lash out at
what it is you don't like about
buddhist culture or canadian culture or
to write something that really
you know demolishes these things so i
just say when i'm talking about
regarding yourself uh creatively kind of
first and foremost
that does not mean that i think that at
age 50 uh you have nothing more to learn
i'm now 42 and i still have a hell of a
lot to learn and i am learning
i am learning but i'm not learning
passively
like i'm very much learning to get kind
of bricks
that i'm putting in the wall of what it
is about
myself yeah i've always taken that
approach of
of kind of the jeet kune do of of
religion for me i've always tried to
bruce lead in a sense of like what works
and what doesn't and the only way it
works is if i test it
okay okay okay so let me all right
someone push back
the problem is if you start from the
premise
that whatever the buddha taught is
profound and true and
right and then you you're never going to
do that right
like just just just even having that
worship
pardon me worshipful attitude um
you know as opposed to i i remember kind
of blowing
somebody's mind this is a very
straightforward example of
translation and mistranslation it was a
particular
very short passage from the pali canon
so i think it was like
four or five sentences long but it was
really
warning that uh people who meditate
go crazy now i i'm yeah i'm sure the the
meaning is you know
hey because it's still true today but
probably at that time in ancient india
some of these people were meditating and
they were hallucinating and believing in
hallucinations you know exactly the same
issues we encounter
in the 21st century um that this was
really a very stark warning
about hallucination uh insanity using
the word
insanity in in pali uh resulting from
from meditation
and the translation of it into english
was like super
vague it was like how can we softball
this as much as possible
and so this person sent me this and said
oh wow and i wrote back oh wow you found
a really interesting passage
because this is whoever wrote this
passage in the pali canon
obviously had a very skeptical view of
the fact that some people when they
meditate
go nuts you know absolutely but but part
of what blew the person's mind i was
talking to you was that i said whoever
wrote this
and they're like what do you mean i said
oh well don't you realize
like at least a few dozen people if not
a couple hundred people
participated in writing the pal again it
wasn't written
it wasn't written by one person
ashoka changed it everybody you but even
before that the very first authorship
these different little scraps of text
reflect different people's perspective
you know like like they're not the same
philosophy whoever wrote
this passage was someone who had this
very
critical view of meditation but there
are other passages
that are a hundred percent uncritical of
meditation that are 100
uncritical of hallucination itself that
just seem to describe whatever you see
when you're hallucinating
as being some kind of valid
transcendental experience of a higher
reality
that is what has been just ripping apart
western buddhism is it's tied into like
psilocybin use it's been tied into
like spirit rock with all the sexually
like problems and you know like
shambhala and over in nova scotia with
all their sexual problems and
it kills me with noah levine too because
like
i hold people i hold certain people to
such a higher standard
like this guy who is not only entrenched
in recovery
but also in like buddhist philosophy
like buddhism and meditation is like
figuring out ways to let go of ego right
let go of
pride you know to work through urges and
cravings and then you hear about him
like forcing himself on women i'm like
what have you been doing like you
created something that's supposed to
help you
fight these urges and work through them
and be a better person i'm just like
what are you doing man
a 64-page report describing two credible
allegations of sexual misconduct
against a former boulder spiritual
leader sack young mifam
reinpoach according to the denver post a
canadian law firm conducted that
investigation which
found the spiritual leader abused his
power the leader of the buddhist
community stepped aside from his role as
head of shambhala
last july after these allegations
surfaced and he did write a letter to
followers
acknowledging how his past relationships
caused harm
it just it seems to me like it's just
rotten from the core and that's why i
don't want to tell people that i even
think about it because there's you know
anybody that looks can see that there's
you even posted about all the sexual
scandals that's you know with that like
it just seems to be everywhere it's like
it's okay for a llama to get drunk in
front of you because
it's a llama knows what he's doing don't
worry about it it's okay for a llama to
have 15 cars even though you're not
supposed to have cars
i read a book by a guy named dimac and
he wrote a book called broken buddhism
and he spent a lot of time in southeast
asia
and he was saying that the temples he
went to there was so much corruption
so many things going on and this was in
the late 90s but he didn't know what to
do anymore as a monk who's been you know
a monk for almost all of his
life and um he was just saying like
everywhere he went
they were they told him that if he
didn't go along with them that he was
he had to get the hell out of the temple
and so you know he didn't
and so he got himself in a lot of
trouble but he wrote about this whole
series and i'm reading it going
like they were actually a part of a
child predator ring in this in thailand
where they were
bringing young girls or young boys into
the temple and then sophia
was listing them out for sexual favors
it was just
mind-blowing you know and i'm just how
do people not give a [ __ ] about this
then we've got the guy
now i'll give you a moderate example
one of the most famous and prestigious
temples in thailand
is called the marble temple that's how
it's known
um i knew a monk who was
resident there for a couple years
and he told me that there was a young
man who joined the temple
and how this is already a form of
corruption
how it is that you get a bed or a seat
at a prestigious temple as opposed to a
poverty-stricken temple there's already
a lot of shenanigans involved with that
this young man as i recall
his father had just died and if it
wasn't his father it was his grandfather
but something like that there'd been
death in the family and he made a
resolution
he said i'm going to become a monk until
i earn
1 million thai bot
and uh and that's a lot less than 1
million us dollars but still it's a nice
round number
he was going to earn 1 million tai bot
and i think his target was to do it
within
a year he was going to become a monk and
learn earn as much money as possible as
fast as possible
and then quit go back to
go into a business to make his father
proud or some of this you know he
got this and it says he wasn't and
you know he was making money you know
this is this is less corrupt than the
kind of scandals of course
there have been scandals with buddhist
monks being involved in outright
gangsterism or what have you but he was
earning money by doing traditional
chanting rituals blessing the house to
give some kind of magical
lucky quality to the house so you know
he was he was going around with a group
of monks doing this
for for pay i'm now in case you don't
know in the pali canon you are forbidden
to
touch money monks are not supposed to
touch money they're not supposed to talk
about money
uh it even goes into some detail about
how to deal with
repairs to the roof it shows you know
that these things happen in ancient
india also
like well there's a hole in the roof and
you need to talk to some lay people
about getting it repaired but you don't
talk about how much it costs because you
can't you know so
you know um there are very detailed
guides about how to replace your bowl
uh because you need a new bowl but you
can't talk about how much it costs or
whether or not the person has enough
money to buy it
so there's an absolute prohibition on
having anything to do with with greater
money
but in this sense you know the the
religion
and this is this is taravata buddhism i
mean as you know mahinda buddhism is way
more corrupt that's on another level
this is the you know and but but my
example is from what's what's supposedly
the elite
you know most esteemed this is like the
equivalent of the vatican
you know the the pinnacle of the
religion within thailand
and it's it's not 90 corrupt it is
one hundred percent corrupt so i guess
that i mean my i have to go tuck my kids
in but
yeah but i just wanted to touch base
with you because i think there's like
i i really i just even watched a video
on the mandalorian
and you're right i haven't gotten to the
second season yet but i don't even think
i'm gonna bother because
that elbow to the chest
well look this is good for audience if
we do it as a series of of shorter
discussions that's better than one
three-hour discussion
but as far as i'm concerned you can hear
this back before i upload it i don't
think you said anything you'll want to
censor delete but i can
i can delete things before it goes
public but i think this is wonderful for
the audience
and i just want to say really briefly i
have people writing into me
asking me to make more content about
buddhism and one of my answers is i've
posted this to patreon lately is like
look
one of the main reasons there isn't more
content on buddhism is that nobody will
talk to me
and just in the last couple of weeks
i've emailed different university
professors
and i have a long history of emailing
leaders in the
skeptic movements and the atheist
movement saying look you're talking
about christian atheism all the time but
i want to deal with the problems of
business religion
can we have a conversation and nobody
will talk to me nobody will
listen and i think that's part of the
context for you reaching out for me now
is this terrible sense that nobody cares
and these are issues that really matter
to millions of people
and you know even if even if the white
people in the equation like you and i
are kind of a minority within a minority
um
you know when you talk about the big
ideologies that are really going to
change the world in the next hundred
years
buddhism is one of them